so you're delivering a speech tomorrow
and you're wondering what can be done in
the final 24 hours leading up to that
speech don't worry you have come to the
right place in this video I am going to
break down how you can best utilize the
day leading up to delivering a speech to
make yourself as prepared as possible
and deliver the best speech that you can
hey everyone my name is Wade Patterson
and the thing I am passionate about is
impactful communication which includes
all sorts of things including public
speaking Communication in general I have
some videos on social media I even have
videos on how to launch a podcast so if
any of that content sounds interesting
to you please consider subscribing to my
channel so before I get into the idea of
the 24 hours leading up to a speech I
should say if you haven't even started
practicing your speech you're kind of in
a tough spot because practicing should
be done well in ad Advance this is a tip
I give on almost every one of my videos
because I know how incredibly important
it is so if it's not just 24 hours away
let's say your speech is in a couple
weeks start the practicing process now
however this video is going to break
down that last 24-hour period and what
you can focus on let's assume that
you're giving a speech at 6:00 p.m.
tomorrow and it is 6:00 p.m. the day
before that this is the perfect time for
you to do do a final run through of your
speech from start to finish the full
thing in other videos I talk about it's
a good idea to practice your speech in
front of family members or friends to
get feedback and that is a great tip
most of the time but I'm actually going
to suggest you don't do that 24 hours
before the speech the reason for that
the worst thing that can happen when you
have a speech at a certain point is to
have somebody tell you you should
completely change it or mix it up when
you're 24 hours away you are committed
to whatever that speech is going to look
like and if you've done the proper
practice previously you should be fine
so if you really insist on having a
family member or friend watch your
speech I would suggest do that the week
before maybe a couple weeks before when
you actually have time to put some
thought behind completely changing your
speech but don't do it 24 hours before
cuz you need to build your confidence
confidence is one of the most important
factors of giving a speech and if you
shake that confidence with somebody
else's opinion it's going to put you in
a tough spot after you've done that full
practice run through and maybe you've
gone over it a couple of times and
you're feeling pretty good about your
speech my next piece of advice get a
full sleep a full night sleep I'm
talking minimum 8 hours it's hard enough
delivering a speech when we're feeling
fantastic but when you are sleep
deprived you didn't sleep great the
night before it makes it so much more
difficult our bodies require really
great sleep especially before we're
about to perform some sort of activity
and a speech is that ultimate test that
ultimate performance in front of a group
of people it's one of the things that is
most feared in life so it is so
important that you get a solid night's
sleep if you can do 8 to 10 hours that's
fantastic itic you're going to wake up
the day of your speech feeling rested
now here's the thing and I get it many
times we deliver speeches at weddings
and many times the festivities in and
around the weddings involve drinking and
alcohol and late night parties and I
fully understand that but be somewhat
responsible in your decisions I know
that I'm not saying don't have a great
time have a great time enjoy yourself
but maybe instead of having five beers
the night before your speech consider
having two kind of laying off on those a
little bit so that you're able to have a
great night's sleep wake up refresh the
next morning and then after you're done
your speech on the night of the wedding
if this is the example we're using then
yes celebrate with a beverage after that
but it is incredibly important to get
that full night sleep the night before
all right you wake up the next morning
you got your full sleep and you're let's
say 10 hours away from speaking what do
you do now you do a final check to make
sure all of your resources are ready to
go what do I mean by resources if your
speech involves any sort of PowerPoint
slide or visual aid make sure that is
working make sure you have put it on a
backup USB and perhaps sent it to the MC
if this is a wedding that we're talking
about or whatever the fact whoever is
organizing the event at which you are
speaking make sure they have a copy of
whatever visual aids that you need if
it's PowerPoint and make sure you have a
backup copy or maybe you're using notes
of some form tuck those away have those
in your bag that you're taking to the
event do a double triple check that you
have everything that you could need for
that speech in order to make it go well
fast forward closer now we're an hour or
a couple hours away from the actual time
you're about to give your speech if you
have the opportunity get to the venue a
little bit early and familiarize
yourself with the room I'm a big
believer in
visualization and I can't tell you how
many times it's made a real difference
for me walking to the front of a room
where I'm going to give a speech later
on and simply looking out even if
nobody's in the room you just see the
chairs that are out there but
visualizing yourself in a few hours
giving that speech what it's going to
look like if you have notes where the
notes are going to be planted out become
familiar with the area and that is going
to build confidence confidence is the
theme of this video because that is what
is so important the last 24 hours it's
all about building your confidence and
that step of getting to the venue early
and becoming familiar with the stage or
wherever you will be speaking from is
going to do wonders for your speech as
we get even closer to the time you're
speaking if you have an opportunity to
speak to the MC or the host or whoever
it is that will be introducing you to
give your speech find out or confirm the
agenda order and know when it is that
you're going to deliver your speech so
that in your head you are mentally
prepared and you are ready to go when
they call you up and the final piece of
advice I have in the 24 hours leading up
to the speech this one's 5 minutes
before your speech have a full glass of
water and have it nearby our bodies in
particular our
mouths they play some tricks on us when
we are giving a speech and the one that
is incredibly common is getting a dry
mouth sounds weird but it happens and
the result
is that gross
sounding sound that we are trying to
speak and our mouth is just completely
dry it happens incredibly often to
speakers and the solution to this is
having water nearby and it doesn't look
odd to your audience if you go you take
a sip of water in between sentences that
looks completely natural and if you
don't have water nearby it's going to be
maybe noticeable for your audience but
you will really notice that dry mouth
and it's going to throw you off it's
going to derail that confidence and I
don't want that to happen to you so have
water nearby have all your notes if
you're using notes ready to go by the
way try not to use notes that's the
ultimate test of a great speaker is the
ability to deliver a speech without
notes however if you do have notes you
need to reference them that's okay make
sure you have those on hand and in those
24 hours you can take your preparedness
to the next level if you follow those
tips thank you so much for watching this
video on what to do in the day leading
up to delivering a speech I hope it was
of value to you and if it was please
consider subscribing to my channel check
out some of the other videos on my
channel because I cover all sorts of
things like how to do certain Toast
Masters roles how to give speeches at a
wedding depending which role you're
doing at that wedding there's a lot of
content on there check it out and
otherwise I will see you on the next
video